Make a program that asks for two numbers (both integers), calculates the integer in the middle (average or mean if you will) of the two numbers and displays it . It can be done in at least 4 different ways. If there are two integers in the "middle", it does not matter, which one you choose.
Create a file with two integers (one on each line) and feed that file using redirection to your above "mean" program.
Construct a program that counts the number of lines in the input, and displays the result. Try it using keyboard input. Use ctrl d to end the input. Count the number of lines in ex1.dat. Redirect input as earlier learned (cat ex1.dat | your_program). There are 1675 lines.
Construct three files from ex1.dat (using already learned UNIX techniques). Each file should contain one column of numbers from ex1.dat. Now make a program that sums numbers from input and displays the sum of the numbers. Feed the columns from the three files, one at a time, to the program using redirection. Be careful you don't delete your program by a stupid redirection error (I did). The sums are approx. Col 1; -904.4143, Col 2; 482.8410, Col 3; 292.05150.
Based on the previous program, now make a new one that calculates the mean value of the columns. Also create a file with the numbers 9-1 and feed that to the program. What is the result from your program and what should it be, based on calculations in your head?
Now make a program (perhaps based on the previous one) that counts the number of positive and negative numbers in a column. Also count the zeroes in the column, if there are any. Display the result.
Now make a program (perhaps based on the previous one) that finds the maximum number in a column. Display the result.
Now make a program that finds the minimum number in a column and display the result.
It begins to get trivial. Now make a program that does all of the above, that is; calculate the sum, the number of lines, the mean value, the number of positive, negative and zero numbers, the maximum and the minimum value. Display the all results clearly so there is no doubt about what you display.
Write a program that converts temperatures from Fahrenheit to Celsius or visa versa given input like "36F" of "15C" ( F = (C * 9/5) + 32 ). Hint: Study chop in the notes.
Write a script that prints a "bulls-eye" to STDOUT using chracters like, '.', '+', '*', '#', etc. Here is an example. 